hey Walter Sorrells back with my
continuing series of videos about tools
used in the making of Japanese swords
and their mounts so I was talking in an
earlier video about the planes or kana
that are used to make Japanese scabbards
now our about planes used on the
interior surfaces of the two pieces
which are used to form together to make
the the Japanese scabbard planes are
also used to profile the exterior of the
scabbard so it's pretty obvious how you
would profile the outer portion of the
curve but what happens is if you get
into a curved surface like this and try
and plane it off with a conventional
flat plane it bottoms out on the corners
and you can't get the blade all the way
in so basically a plane like this is
intended to make things flat and it's of
no use whatsoever on interior curves so
is there a solution to that in terms of
planes the answer is yes and it's this
it's a small curved radiused plane so
the bottom is just curved there's a
there's a kind of plane like this in the
Western tradition that's used for making
I believe cheer bottoms same principle
it's just a normal plane but the bottom
is kind of shaved off so another neat
little thing I made this particular
plane myself and very handy for getting
those interior curves planed out of the
curved surface that you have on the
exterior of a saya or Japanese scabbard
hope you're enjoying this series of
videos if you did check out my website
Walter swirls blades comm where you'll
find lots more videos in this vein along
with plenty of examples of my own work
also like my page Walter Sorel's blades
on Facebook thanks for watching